---
layout: post
title:  "CV"
date:   2020-01-13 12:15:02 +0000
categories: jekyll update
---
## Summary
Victor is a consultant transport planner that has been working in the industry since May 2016. During the course of his career he has focused on providing creative solutions to technical complex problems. His knowledge of technologies such Python, VBA and R has enabled him to approach these solutions in a highly efficient way. Leading him to create tools and processes that would eventually increase the company’s efficiency, project’s profitability and teams’ work consistency. Victor has taken part in collaborative projects where communication was key and has produced technical reporting.

[One-page CV](/Files/VictorSequiC.V..html)

## Time line

Start – Finish | Position | Department | Institution
--- | --- | --- | --- 
Jul 2019 – Present | Consultant Transport Planner | Model development and research | AECOM (St Albans)
Jul 2018 – Jul 2019 | Graduate Transport Planner | Model development and research | AECOM (St Albans)
May 2016 – Jun 2018 | Graduate Transport Planner | Highways Strategy | AECOM (Bedford)
Sep 2009 – May 2015 | University Student | Meng in Civil Engineering | Polytechnic University of Madrid

## Certifications

| Issuing body | Accreditation obtained       | Date of issue | ID      | Diploma                                                                                                                                    |
| ------------ | ---------------------------- | ------------- | ------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Data Camp    | Data Scientist with Python   | Sep 2019      | 100,610 | [Statement of accomplishment](https://www.datacamp.com/statement-of-accomplishment/track/0c6a9fa4596a93fb30124fb7a8c007aecf4e86b0?share=1) |
| CAPM         | Project Management Institute | Dec 2014      | 1785304 | [Certification](/Files/Certification_1785304.JPG)                                                                                                               |


## Project Experience

### A428 Black Cat to Caxton Gibbet Stage2a and Stage 3, H.E., Aug 2019 - Present;
Stage 3: Victor studied the suitability of using TIS data in the matrix building process. He took part in the matrix building process, which was done using R. Victor developed the trip-end model in Access and helped understand the Transport users benefit appraisal (TUBA) results obtained. He finally undertook the construction delay traffic modelling and economical assessment.

Stage 2a: Victor recalculated the likely region of interest for the model, participated in the SATURN coding of the scheme and performed the variable demand modelling. He also assessed the Uncertainty log used and appraised the scheme’s reliability. 

### Journey time routes processor, AECOM tools, November 2019;
Based on an existing R process, Victor revised this and build a tool to process Traffic Master journey time data and compare it to model results using Python. The tool interacts with SATURN and automatically produces geographical route plots, validation plots and summary tables.

### AECOM_SATURN Python package, AECOM tools, October 2019;
Another of Victor’s contributions was to develop a Python package capable of interacting with SATURN exes and use SATURN formats. The package includes reading and writing UFMs extracting data from UFS, running assignments, producing .GIS files from a shp file, producing link flow difference plots in html format and colour coded zone data plots.

### COMET enhancement for JAQU, Hertfordshire County Council, March-Dec 2019;
Victor undertook the adaptation of the COMET Emme based variable demand model to forecast choice responses between compliant and non-compliant vehicles, toll users and non-toll users, residents and non-residents and the different purposes, when the proposed air quality interventions were in place. He also helped understand and communicate the results.

### Hertfordshire County Council (HCC), COMET Update - MRT, Sep-Oct 2019;
Victor included the necessary changes to the Emme based variable demand model to accommodate the two new user classes, Bus-Rail and MRT. This included updating the variable demand Emme macros, extracting the information from the run outputs and handing them over with the necessary explications.

### East-West Rail - Highway Network Impact Assessment in Central Bedfordshire, Network Rail, Jan-March 2019;
The product delivered and produced by Victor was forecasting the impact of East-West-rail’s different options on Bedfordshire roads using forecasted rail travel data and the Central Bedfordshire and Luton Transport Model (CBLTM). This encompassed translating rail travel data to vehicle trips, defining the catchment areas and distributing trips amongst these.

### UTG Bus boarding/alighting model, Nexus, June-Aug 2017: Sep-Oct 2018;
Victor Wrote a VBA based model capable of estimating alighting stations for bus senior-citizen-person card holders. The task was very data intensive and required a good understanding of VBA programming. The project had a follow-up of similar characteristics in 2018.

### Luton Airport expansion, July-Aug 2018;
Victor took a major role in reviewing and recoding the SATURN network that was based on the Central Bedfordshire and Luton Transport Model (CBLTM).

### A47-A11 Thickthorn Junction, H.E., Feb-Aug 2017;
Checking the SATURN network code, assessing the model’s validation, performing junction turn analysis, producing sensitivity test analysis on the network’s signals, running COBALT (COst and Benefit to Accidents – Light Touch) for the scheme, running TUBA for the scheme and reporting results, were some of the tasks Victor undertook for this project.

### M1 Junction 13 to 16 SMART motorway, H.E., May 2016 - March 2017;
This was the first project Victor was involved in and it brought him the following experience: SATURN network coding, TUBA (Transport Users Benefit Appraisal) running, COBALT, MyRIAD (Motorway Reliability Incidents and Delays), Construction delay economic assessment, speed banding analysis for noise and air quality modelling and sensitivity growth testing.


